The FrobTADS main package does not contain the compilers, so that people
only interested in the interpreter won't have to download sources they
don't need (the TADS 3 compiler is quite big).  You can download the
package of the compiler you're interested in (TADS 2 or TADS 3) from the
same place where you got this main package.  You can download both
compilers, if you wish.  You need to extract the contents of the
compiler packages into the FrobTADS top-level directory.  See below for
more information.

There is no documentation on the TADS programming languages included in
any of the FrobTADS packages.  Luckily, the TADS homepage offers
various downloads and links:

http://www.tads.org
  The TADS homepage; has the latest news, updates and documentation for
  everything TADS-related.

http://www.tads.org/t3doc/doc
  The TADS 3 Bookshelf.  Everything you need to know about writing IF
  in TADS 3 can be found there.  A must-visit.  It contains various
  books, browsable online (HTML) and downloadable (PDF).

http://teladesign.com/tads-manual/tadsman.zip
  The TADS 2 Author's Manual (HTML format).

http://www.tela.bc.ca/tads-manual
  This leads to the online-version of the TADS 2 Author's Manual.


Unpacking and building
======================

There are no extra configuration steps required to build the compilers.
Just unpack them inside the FrobTADS directory and reconfigure the
package.  The FrobTADS configuration script will detect the presence of
the compiler sources and build them along with the interpreter.  For
example, if you previously unpacked FrobTADS in

  ~/downloads/frobtads-0.11

and your downloaded TADS 3 compiler package is

  ~/downloads/frobtads-t3compiler-0.11.tar.gz

you can unpack the compiler with:

  cd ~/downloads/frobtads-0.11
  tar -xzf ~/downloads/frobtads-t3compiler-0.11.tar.gz

If you previously configured FrobTADS, you can reconfigure by typing:

  ./config.status --recheck

in the build directory in order to use your previously supplied
configuration options.  Or you can simply run ./configure again if you
want to use different options.

See the INSTALL file for more information on configuring and compiling.


Invocation
==========

The compilers can be invoked with:

  tadsc   (TADS 2 compiler)
  t3make  (TADS 3 compiler)

Note that, unlike the interpreter, the compilers don't support GNU-like
command line options, which means that "short options" aren't available.
For example, use "-help" instead of "--help".  This is to ensure
compatibility of compiler command line syntax between different ports.

For Tads 3, you don't need to specify where the compiler's include files
are installed.  But the Tads 2 compiler works different.  When invoking
'tadsc', you'll have to use the -i option:

  tadsc -i /usr/local/share/frobtads/tads2 mygame.t

(Remember to use the actual path if you installed somewhere else.)
